hello I'm chef Mike with giant Eagle
today we're going to properly truss and
tie a turkey before we can trust the
turkey we need to actually ensure that
we've rinsed it with cold water we can
rinse the outside as well as the inside
of the cavity you'll notice when rinsing
that there's actually a turkey neck on
the back side of the cavity and then if
you turn it around here in the neck
we'll find a bag of giblets these are
the innards we can actually utilize
these to produce a fabulous turkey gravy
that will accompany the turkey now some
brands of turkey will actually come with
a clasp that binds the two legs together
they'll hold them for you and it's
actually even though it's plastic it is
heat proof go right into the oven so we
don't even need any twine at this point
to tie this bird we'll take the wings
that are very loose and actually tuck
them behind the neck they'll actually
hold themselves for the entire cooking
time and make a fabulous presentation
for your meal now this bird unlike the
first doesn't have the clasp to actually
hold the legs in place so we're going to
actually show you how to properly trust
the bird utilizing standard cooking
twine we'll need about three to four
foot on average we're gonna look for the
center point of that string lay that in
front of the bird we're going to roll
the turkey onto its belly right above
the spinal section we will put the very
center of that court and run the twine
just under each of the wings hold that
nice and tightly while we bring the
string back across the other side do the
same for each wing then we can
crisscross the twine on the back side
run it down by the drum section flip the
entire bird onto its back what we're
going to do is lay one drum over the
other crisscross the twine again take
one string under the back side the other
around the opposite side pull them tight
and then just make a quick knot to
finish up
you can also tuck the tail in if it's
hanging out or the extra skin some folks
tuck that on the inside but also will
use a knife and trim that a lot of times
and we can save this for the gravy as
well